- [Instructor] The next integration pattern
that we will discuss is an orchestration pattern
called the process aggregator pattern.
The process aggregator is a very straightforward way
within your system to develop complex processes.
When we have multiple data domains
that need to be called together within a business process,
we use business process services.
There may be cases, hopefully infrequently,
where you need to do the same
for business processes themselves.
This is where this pattern comes into play.
So the problem that we need to solve is we have built out
several business processes within our system
but we see a frequent need to call two or more of them
at the same time in certain use cases
and then build a composite response from it.
This is where this pattern shines.
The aggregator provides clients with a single API to call.
This API contract not only handles
the underlying business process calls,
but assembles the payload for the client system.
The process aggregator can
and really should introduce its own processing logic.
If you are building an aggregator to simply group calls
for your clients,
you can leverage a gateway aggregator
or even just keep the calls in the client.
The aggregator really shines from a value perspective
when it is also encapsulating the business logic
for these aggregation calls.
If every client has to reproduce a set of rules
when calling multiple business processes,
you're breaking the don't-repeat-yourself or dry principle.
The aggregator encapsulates that logic
and then has the added benefit of consolidating
the payload out to the client
for the parts of the model that are relevant
for the aggregation call in the first place.
I will urge you to please use this pattern with caution
as it can introduce a choke point in your system.
Consider the case of a loan process,
where there may be several business processes
and multiple data domains of play.
In addition, in order to proceed from one process
to the next, you need to complete
the first business process call completely.
This can make your aggregation call
a very long running process, which in turn,
is a blocking call for the API.
This choke point can bring a distributed system to a crawl
as network I/O increases and wait times also increase.
Once you get into this realm of processing,
you really need to consider asynchronous patterns
instead of aggregators.
Designing and building an aggregator
should look very familiar at this point.
The first thing you need to do is determine
which business processes are needed behind the aggregator.
Ensuring, you know the business processes first
will help you make informed design decisions going forward.
Now you need to determine the processing rules.
Again, once you understand the process
and the processing rules,
you can make better informed decisions going forward.
Now based on the previous steps,
you should be able to define a new model
for your aggregator.
This really shouldn't be as simple pass-through
and consolidation of your underlying processes
because your internal processing rules will add
or modify the model in most use cases.
Once you have your model,
you can design the API based on that model.
Many times, if you design the model right,
you can use standard rest verbs on these models.
But if not, you always have the action pattern as needed.
And finally, you need to wire the service together
and implement the internal processing features.
Once again, and I may sound a little bit
like a broken record here,
but once again,
I will urge you to encapsulate
your internal business processing rules
to prevent a risk of changes down the road,
causing more problems.
This encapsulation helps with design
as well as maintainability of your system.
The aggregator pattern is useful in some cases
and is a good pattern to have in your toolbox.
Just heed the warnings about the pattern before you jump in.
Abstraction for the sake of abstraction
does you no good
in a distributed microservices architecture.
And if you find yourself down that path,
I can almost promise you,
you will see network issues in the future.